Hey guys welcome back to the course so in this lecture it's going to be a quick one.
We're just going to go over a real quick strategy that has really helped us accelerate the vetting process
for finding who is a good project who has a good project proposal and who's a good freelancer and to
save you a lot of time in this process.
OK so the short of it is get the freelancer or the firm get them off the platform.
So what I mean by getting them off the platform is that at the very beginning of the process you have
a lot of project proposals and it's very very helpful if you get them to leave the messaging system
or the embedded system that each platform uses to facilitate conversation.
Now in general if you use Elance or freelancer up work they are very bulky systems are communicating
you send a message sends it to them they accept it and then they respond.
And there's usually a lag in between the times.
It's almost like writing an email back and forth and it's completely anonymized and you can't contact
them directly off the platform.
Now that messaging system is fine right.
You can get a lot of information out of people but you will notice is that over time the more messages
you send you'll get a lower and lower response rate simply because they're bidding on other projects
that probably got something else that's come through.
They're focusing their attention over there.
They might disappear entirely if you ask too many questions.
So what I like to do is I like to get them off the platform for at least the messaging part of this
whole process so I usually like to ask them if they have skype.
Ask them if they have whatsapp ask them if they can talk on the phone whatever it is.
Ninety nine percent of time it's Skype if you get them on Skype and then you talk to them you can vet
them so much more quickly.
You don't have to wait for them to respond.
You don't have to wait for them to get an e-mail notification to log on to e lands to the message you.
You can talk to them instantly and all of a sudden you can see how they are you can see how responsive
they are.
You can see how thoughtful they are.
You can see how smart they are you can figure out very quickly how well they understand the project
and how well of a fit they're going to be and you can do that honestly in ten minutes with them on Skype
you don't necessarily need to call them.
You can do skype chat.
That's perfectly fine.
There's a lot of benefits to doing that.
And honestly you can ask them Hey do you have skype Let's talk on Skype and if they don't have skype
you can use that as a red flag.
It's very strange that a freelancer who supposedly is good at what they do is been doing this for a
period of time is not willing or does not have the ability to talk to you on Skype.
So if you want to save time and get them off the platform those communication tools are very clunky.
The worst part about those outsourcing platforms.
So if you just navigate around that you can get people on Skype you can have.
I mean you can interact 20 times faster through Skype.
Figure out if they're worth it in 10 minutes as opposed to taking several days to figure out whether
or not they're worth it.
And having an abandonment rate that's way too high to be acceptable.
OK that was a quick strategy.
That's something that's really really helped me.
It really helps me kind of establish long term relationships with them really helps kind of improve
the response rate on both sides.
It's really nice that you can directly contact someone if you need anything or have a question you can
just message them and it doesn't have to be monitored by the other platforms.
I always suggest using the other platforms for their escrow service and there milestone services so
all of them have this system where you can pay money to them and as an intermediary they'll judge when
the project's done and release it at the correct time.
Now don't try to do the transaction off of their system entirely until you have a rapport with the freelancer
or you at least have your own established process and a lot of expertise with contracting.
So really simple if you want to figure out who's the best.
Very quickly get them off the platform get them onto Skype and figure it out so much faster.
Or see the next lecture.